---
title: Coffee with Alex
date: 24/08/2016 1749
---

## TL;DR: It's OK to be an enabler

Met with Alex over coffee (tea, actually) and basically vented about things not working well, how to improve, what to focus on.

> Are there any previous EF companies focused on block chain? What did they do?
- Elliptic started off as a cold wallet storage company but pivoted into becoming a block chain intelligence company analyzing Bitcoin transactions to flag out suspicious activities. 
- BlockOps started off as a similar block chain intelligence company but moved into the KYC space helping bank's improve the KYC process. 

*Takeaway*: For the most part applications on the block chain itself have not taken off because people don't really know / care enough about it yet (though I would say with the recent uptake in block chain tech by various banks this has changed). Also with cryptocurrency volatility and low usability mainstream applications will definitely take a long while.

> I have zero domain knowledge, am stuck at finding ideas now
There are two routes:

1. Follow hunches on what the future will be like
2. Go deep in the stack with something that enables the future

A satellite company from EF basically thought: *'at some point, people will want to launch lots of stuff into space, and we need a way for it to be more accessible'. At the current state you need to have lots of qualifications, be aerospace engineers etc. So they made it accessible to the common people.

MagicPony thought: *'In the future everyone will send lots of videos - we need a way to reduce data needed'* and worked on reducing the data foot print for videos. Though they couldn't find a legit problem for their solution in the end, it worked out well.

*Takeaway*: **Envision** the future, and work towards that future or work on technology that **enables** that future. Think *'In the future, everyone will want to X and so we need Y*

> What do you think about digital wallets?

Digital wallets are definitely on the rise but it will be very hard to compete with tech giants who have distribution. There might be potential and space for wallets with context specific use cases, but probably not general ones.

> How will decentralized applications even earn?
Look at Index Ventures. Many companies open source their technology and earn via business license. In general don't worry about money too much. As long as you are providing value, money will be a byproduct.

> So.. What should I focus on
**Visualize** the future, work on what you think will be in demand e.g. better way to access decentralized search. Usability as well is a pretty big issue, for example even with smart contracts I can't just go on an escrow with someone using terms we just set. The UI needs to be near the level people are expecting right now for mainstream adoption, other structures need to exist before applications can be born.

## After Thoughts
This session made me realize how incredibly shitty my verbal expression and recall have become. I'm hoping that launching this blog will help me internalize various concepts better so I can express myself better (e.g. on benefits of Ethereum ala decentralization & trustlessness).

Moving forward I have to work on finding a good startup idea. Currently my attempts are centered around a rather brute force approach, where I try to apply concepts to X, and see whether it makes sense. I'm also using the 'solve your own itch' methodology but unfortunately that always leads to shallow problems. 

Talking with Alex reinforced the idea of envisioning the future to find what the world needed, echoing Paul Graham's post on [getting startup ideas](http://paulgraham.com/startupideas.html). The main point is to make it a search problem to get from point A, the present, to point Z, your envisioned future, be it the main offering (point Z itself) or the enablers (points B,C,D...Y).

At the risk of just rephrasing my ideas to fit this way of thinking, here's what I think will happen in the future:
- There will be more decentralized applications that don't want their data stored in a centralized manner. We will need decentralized search (Like ElasticSearch? Search in sharded databases?), decentralized file storages (FileCoin, IPFS)
- Ethereum will move towards more mainstream applications. We will need to secure the contracts (formal verification) for serious use cases. We will need better user interfaces for various applications, especially exploring the smart contracts. We will need much much better & secure integrations for block chain / digital applications with the real world.
- Ethereum will be used for most if not all escrow applications. We will need better real world data validation, for both public facts and private ones
- Esports will grow even bigger.
- Self-driving cars will change the way commute / deliveries are done, e.g. smart routes to maximize value from A to B by delivering people, items, food etc.
- More documents will be digitized, even legal ones. We will need ways to digitize legal contracts / procedures.
- Machine Learning + AI will become even bigger, Big Data will grow bigger, more data will be needed. Big companies have all the data sets, small companies must rely on smart innovative algorithms. We will probably need a way to sell these data / make it accessible for everyone. use for comp like netflix?
